README.md, before:

# React-Phone-Input-2
Highly customizable phone input component with auto formatting.

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-phone-input-2.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-phone-input-2)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-phone-input-2.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-phone-input-2)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2#contributing)
[![travis build](https://travis-ci.org/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2)

![animation](https://media.giphy.com/media/xiORAWnqoTJDsH0UOI/giphy.gif)

## Installation
```shell-script
npm install react-phone-input-2 --save
```

## Usage
```jsx
import PhoneInput from 'react-phone-input-2'
import 'react-phone-input-2/lib/style.css'

<PhoneInput
  country={'us'}
  value={this.state.phone}
  onChange={phone => this.setState({ phone })}
/>
```
**available styles** - style • high-res • material • bootstrap • semantic-ui • plain

#### [Demo 1 (UI)](https://bl00mber.github.io/react-phone-input-2.html) - [Demo 2 (CSS)](https://bl00mber.github.io/react-phone-input-2-css.html)

![screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2/master/test/screenshot.png)

## Options
<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Name </th>
    <th> Type </th>
    <th> Description </th>
    <th> Example </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> country </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td> initial country </td>
    <td> 'us' | 1 </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> value </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> input state value </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td> onlyCountries </td>
    <td> array </td>
    <td> country codes to be included </td>
    <td> ['cu','cw','kz'] </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> preferredCountries </td>
    <td> array </td>
    <td> country codes to be at the top </td>
    <td> ['cu','cw','kz'] </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> excludeCountries </td>
    <td> array </td>
    <td> array of country codes to be excluded </td>
    <td> ['cu','cw','kz'] </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td> placeholder </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> custom placeholder </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td> inputProps </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> props to pass into the input </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Booleans </th>
    <th> Default </th>
    <th> Description </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> autoFormat </td>
    <td> true </td>
    <td> on/off phone formatting </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disabled </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> disable input and dropdown </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disableDropdown </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> disable dropdown only </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disableCountryCode </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> enableAreaCodes </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> enable local codes for all countries </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> enableTerritories </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> enable dependent territories with population of ~100,000 or lower </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> enableLongNumbers </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> boolean/number </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> countryCodeEditable </td>
    <td> true </td>
    <td> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> enableSearch </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> enable search in the dropdown </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disableSearchIcon </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> hide icon for the search field </td>
  </tr>
</table>

```jsx
<PhoneInput
  inputProps={{
    name: 'phone',
    required: true,
    autoFocus: true
  }}
/>
```

### Contents
- [Style](#style)
- [Events](#events)
- [Regions](#regions)
- [Localization](#predefined-localization)
- [Local area codes](#local-area-codes)
- [Custom masks](#custom-masks)
- [Custom area codes](#custom-area-codes)
- [Other props](#other-props)
- [Custom localization](#custom-localization)
- [Guides](#guides)
  - [Phone without dialCode](#phone-without-dialcode)
  - [Check validity of the phone number](#check-validity-of-the-phone-number)
  - [CDN](#cdn)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Support](https://www.paypal.me/bloomber/20)

### Style
<table>
  <tr>
    <td> containerClass </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> class for container </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> inputClass </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> class for input </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> buttonClass </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> class for dropdown button </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> dropdownClass </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> class for dropdown container </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> searchClass </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> class for search field </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td> containerStyle </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> styles for container </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> inputStyle </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> styles for input </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> buttonStyle </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> styles for dropdown button </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> dropdownStyle </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> styles for dropdown container </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> searchStyle </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> styles for search field </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Events
<table>
  <tr>
    <td> onChange </td>
    <td> onFocus </td>
    <td> onBlur </td>
    <td> onClick </td>
    <td> onKeyDown </td>
  </tr>
</table>

onChange(value, country, e, formattedValue)

Country data object not returns from onKeyDown event

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Data </th>
    <th> Type </th>
    <th> Description </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> value/event </td>
    <td> string/object </td>
    <td> event or the phone number </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> country data </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td> country object { name, dialCode, countryCode (iso2) } </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Regions
<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Name </th>
    <th> Type </th>
    <th> Description </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> regions </td>
    <td> array/string </td>
    <td> to show countries only from specified regions </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Regions </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> ['america', 'europe', 'asia', 'oceania', 'africa'] </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th> Subregions </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> ['north-america', 'south-america', 'central-america', 'carribean', 'eu-union', 'ex-ussr', 'ex-yugos', 'baltic', 'middle-east', 'north-africa'] </td>
  </tr>
</table>

```jsx
<PhoneInput
  country='de'
  regions={'europe'}
/>

<PhoneInput
  country='us'
  regions={['north-america', 'carribean']}
/>
```

### Predefined localization
`es` Spanish, `de` Deutsch, `ru` Russian, `fr` French<br/>
`jp` Japanese, `cn` Chinese, `pt` Portuguese, `it` Italian<br/>
`ir` Iranian, `ar` Arabic, `tr` Turkish, `id` Indonesian<br/>
`hu` Hungarian, `pl` Polish, `ko` Korean

```jsx
import es from 'react-phone-input-2/lang/es.json'

<PhoneInput
  localization={es}
/>
```

### Local area codes
```jsx
<PhoneInput
  enableAreaCodes={true}
  enableAreaCodes={['us', 'ca']}
  enableAreaCodeStretch
/>
```

#### Flexible mask
If `enableAreaCodeStretch` is added, the part of the mask with the area code will not stretch to length of the respective section of phone mask.
Example: `+61 (2), +61 (02)`

### Custom masks
```jsx
<PhoneInput
  onlyCountries={['fr', 'at']}
  masks={{fr: '(...) ..-..-..', at: '(....) ...-....'}}
/>
```

### Custom area codes
```jsx
<PhoneInput
  onlyCountries={['gr', 'fr', 'us']}
  areaCodes={{gr: ['2694', '2647'], fr: ['369', '463'], us: ['300']}}
/>
```

### Other props
<table>
  <tr>
    <td> defaultMask </td>
    <td> ... ... ... ... .. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> alwaysDefaultMask </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> prefix </td>
    <td> + </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> searchPlaceholder </td>
    <td> 'search' </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> searchNotFound </td>
    <td> 'No entries to show' </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td> copyNumbersOnly </td>
    <td> true </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> renderStringAsFlag </td>
    <td> string </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> autocompleteSearch </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> jumpCursorToEnd </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> priority </td>
    <td> {{ca: 0, us: 1, kz: 0, ru: 1}} </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> enableClickOutside </td>
    <td> true </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> showDropdown </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> defaultErrorMessage </td>
    <td> string </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> specialLabel </td>
    <td> string </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disableInitialCountryGuess </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disableCountryGuess </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Custom localization
```jsx
<PhoneInput
  onlyCountries={['de', 'es']}
  localization={{de: 'Deutschland', es: 'España'}}
/>

<PhoneInput
  onlyCountries={['de', 'es']}
  localization={{'Germany': 'Deutschland', 'Spain': 'España'}}
/>
```

### Preserve countries order
```jsx
<PhoneInput
  onlyCountries={['fr', 'at']}
  preserveOrder={['onlyCountries', 'preferredCountries']}
/>
```

## Guides
### Phone without dialCode
```jsx
handleOnChange(value, data, event, formattedValue) {
  this.setState({ rawPhone: value.slice(data.dialCode.length) })
}
```

### Check validity of the phone number
`isValid(value, country, countries, hiddenAreaCodes)`

```jsx
<PhoneInput
  isValid={(value, country) => {
    if (value.match(/12345/)) {
      return 'Invalid value: '+value+', '+country.name;
    } else if (value.match(/1234/)) {
      return false;
    } else {
      return true;
    }
  }}
/>
```

```jsx
import startsWith from 'lodash.startswith';

<PhoneInput
  isValid={(inputNumber, country, countries) => {
    return countries.some((country) => {
      return startsWith(inputNumber, country.dialCode) || startsWith(country.dialCode, inputNumber);
    });
  }}
/>
```

### Clear country
To clear `country`, pass `null` as `value`.

### Dynamic placeholder
<details>
  <summary>Show</summary>

```jsx
const phoneCountryFormat = useMemo(() => phoneCountry?.format || undefined, [phoneCountry]);
const placeholder = useMemo(() => {
  if (phoneCountryFormat) {
    const words = phoneCountryFormat.split(' ');
    words.shift(); // I'm using only local numbers so here I remove the country code from the format
    let text = words.join(' ');
     // first digit is special on french numbers, these 3 lines could be removed
    if (country === 'fr') {
      text = text.replace('.', '6');
    }
    while (text.indexOf('.') > -1) {
      text = text.replace('.', `${Math.min(9, Math.max(1, Math.floor(Math.random() * 10)))}`);
    }
    return text;
  }
  return '';
}, [phoneCountryFormat, country]);
```
</details>

### CDN
```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/react-phone-input-2@2.x/dist/lib.js"></script>
```

## Contributing
- Code style changes not allowed
- Do not create issues about incorrect or missing country masks (of already present countries) or absent area codes (they will be closed). Only create issues if the subject is an actual mechanism that is not present in the component. Otherwise create a PR with a link that proves the correctness of your newly suggested mask or list of area codes
- Do not send new languages

## License
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2/blob/master/LICENSE)

Based on [react-phone-input](https://github.com/razagill/react-phone-input)

Make sure you donated for lib maintenance [![Donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-green.svg)](https://www.paypal.me/bloomber/20)

Commit message:

feat: changed libraryTarget to umd for vite compatibility

README.md, after:

# vreact-phone-input
A fork of [react-phone-input-2](https://github.com/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2) that is compatible with vite.
Highly customizable phone input component with auto formatting.

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-phone-input-2.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-phone-input-2)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-phone-input-2.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-phone-input-2)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2#contributing)
[![travis build](https://travis-ci.org/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2)

![animation](https://media.giphy.com/media/xiORAWnqoTJDsH0UOI/giphy.gif)

## Installation
```shell-script
npm install react-phone-input-2 --save
```

## Usage
```jsx
import PhoneInput from 'react-phone-input-2'
import 'react-phone-input-2/lib/style.css'

<PhoneInput
  country={'us'}
  value={this.state.phone}
  onChange={phone => this.setState({ phone })}
/>
```
**available styles** - style • high-res • material • bootstrap • semantic-ui • plain

#### [Demo 1 (UI)](https://bl00mber.github.io/react-phone-input-2.html) - [Demo 2 (CSS)](https://bl00mber.github.io/react-phone-input-2-css.html)

![screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2/master/test/screenshot.png)

## Options
<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Name </th>
    <th> Type </th>
    <th> Description </th>
    <th> Example </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> country </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td> initial country </td>
    <td> 'us' | 1 </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> value </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> input state value </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td> onlyCountries </td>
    <td> array </td>
    <td> country codes to be included </td>
    <td> ['cu','cw','kz'] </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> preferredCountries </td>
    <td> array </td>
    <td> country codes to be at the top </td>
    <td> ['cu','cw','kz'] </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> excludeCountries </td>
    <td> array </td>
    <td> array of country codes to be excluded </td>
    <td> ['cu','cw','kz'] </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td> placeholder </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> custom placeholder </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td> inputProps </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> props to pass into the input </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Booleans </th>
    <th> Default </th>
    <th> Description </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> autoFormat </td>
    <td> true </td>
    <td> on/off phone formatting </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disabled </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> disable input and dropdown </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disableDropdown </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> disable dropdown only </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disableCountryCode </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> enableAreaCodes </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> enable local codes for all countries </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> enableTerritories </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> enable dependent territories with population of ~100,000 or lower </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> enableLongNumbers </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> boolean/number </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> countryCodeEditable </td>
    <td> true </td>
    <td> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> enableSearch </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> enable search in the dropdown </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disableSearchIcon </td>
    <td> false </td>
    <td> hide icon for the search field </td>
  </tr>
</table>

```jsx
<PhoneInput
  inputProps={{
    name: 'phone',
    required: true,
    autoFocus: true
  }}
/>
```

### Contents
- [Style](#style)
- [Events](#events)
- [Regions](#regions)
- [Localization](#predefined-localization)
- [Local area codes](#local-area-codes)
- [Custom masks](#custom-masks)
- [Custom area codes](#custom-area-codes)
- [Other props](#other-props)
- [Custom localization](#custom-localization)
- [Guides](#guides)
  - [Phone without dialCode](#phone-without-dialcode)
  - [Check validity of the phone number](#check-validity-of-the-phone-number)
  - [CDN](#cdn)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Support](https://www.paypal.me/bloomber/20)

### Style
<table>
  <tr>
    <td> containerClass </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> class for container </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> inputClass </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> class for input </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> buttonClass </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> class for dropdown button </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> dropdownClass </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> class for dropdown container </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> searchClass </td>
    <td> string </td>
    <td colspan="2"> class for search field </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td> containerStyle </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> styles for container </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> inputStyle </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> styles for input </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> buttonStyle </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> styles for dropdown button </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> dropdownStyle </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> styles for dropdown container </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> searchStyle </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td colspan="2"> styles for search field </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Events
<table>
  <tr>
    <td> onChange </td>
    <td> onFocus </td>
    <td> onBlur </td>
    <td> onClick </td>
    <td> onKeyDown </td>
  </tr>
</table>

onChange(value, country, e, formattedValue)

Country data object not returns from onKeyDown event

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Data </th>
    <th> Type </th>
    <th> Description </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> value/event </td>
    <td> string/object </td>
    <td> event or the phone number </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> country data </td>
    <td> object </td>
    <td> country object { name, dialCode, countryCode (iso2) } </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Regions
<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Name </th>
    <th> Type </th>
    <th> Description </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> regions </td>
    <td> array/string </td>
    <td> to show countries only from specified regions </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Regions </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> ['america', 'europe', 'asia', 'oceania', 'africa'] </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th> Subregions </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> ['north-america', 'south-america', 'central-america', 'carribean', 'eu-union', 'ex-ussr', 'ex-yugos', 'baltic', 'middle-east', 'north-africa'] </td>
  </tr>
</table>

```jsx
<PhoneInput
  country='de'
  regions={'europe'}
/>

<PhoneInput
  country='us'
  regions={['north-america', 'carribean']}
/>
```

### Predefined localization
`es` Spanish, `de` Deutsch, `ru` Russian, `fr` French<br/>
`jp` Japanese, `cn` Chinese, `pt` Portuguese, `it` Italian<br/>
`ir` Iranian, `ar` Arabic, `tr` Turkish, `id` Indonesian<br/>
`hu` Hungarian, `pl` Polish, `ko` Korean

```jsx
import es from 'react-phone-input-2/lang/es.json'

<PhoneInput
  localization={es}
/>
```

### Local area codes
```jsx
<PhoneInput
  enableAreaCodes={true}
  enableAreaCodes={['us', 'ca']}
  enableAreaCodeStretch
/>
```

#### Flexible mask
If `enableAreaCodeStretch` is added, the part of the mask with the area code will not stretch to length of the respective section of phone mask.
Example: `+61 (2), +61 (02)`

### Custom masks
```jsx
<PhoneInput
  onlyCountries={['fr', 'at']}
  masks={{fr: '(...) ..-..-..', at: '(....) ...-....'}}
/>
```

### Custom area codes
```jsx
<PhoneInput
  onlyCountries={['gr', 'fr', 'us']}
  areaCodes={{gr: ['2694', '2647'], fr: ['369', '463'], us: ['300']}}
/>
```

### Other props
<table>
  <tr>
    <td> defaultMask </td>
    <td> ... ... ... ... .. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> alwaysDefaultMask </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> prefix </td>
    <td> + </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> searchPlaceholder </td>
    <td> 'search' </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> searchNotFound </td>
    <td> 'No entries to show' </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td> copyNumbersOnly </td>
    <td> true </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> renderStringAsFlag </td>
    <td> string </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> autocompleteSearch </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> jumpCursorToEnd </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> priority </td>
    <td> {{ca: 0, us: 1, kz: 0, ru: 1}} </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> enableClickOutside </td>
    <td> true </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> showDropdown </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> defaultErrorMessage </td>
    <td> string </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> specialLabel </td>
    <td> string </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disableInitialCountryGuess </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> disableCountryGuess </td>
    <td> false </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Custom localization
```jsx
<PhoneInput
  onlyCountries={['de', 'es']}
  localization={{de: 'Deutschland', es: 'España'}}
/>

<PhoneInput
  onlyCountries={['de', 'es']}
  localization={{'Germany': 'Deutschland', 'Spain': 'España'}}
/>
```

### Preserve countries order
```jsx
<PhoneInput
  onlyCountries={['fr', 'at']}
  preserveOrder={['onlyCountries', 'preferredCountries']}
/>
```

## Guides
### Phone without dialCode
```jsx
handleOnChange(value, data, event, formattedValue) {
  this.setState({ rawPhone: value.slice(data.dialCode.length) })
}
```

### Check validity of the phone number
`isValid(value, country, countries, hiddenAreaCodes)`

```jsx
<PhoneInput
  isValid={(value, country) => {
    if (value.match(/12345/)) {
      return 'Invalid value: '+value+', '+country.name;
    } else if (value.match(/1234/)) {
      return false;
    } else {
      return true;
    }
  }}
/>
```

```jsx
import startsWith from 'lodash.startswith';

<PhoneInput
  isValid={(inputNumber, country, countries) => {
    return countries.some((country) => {
      return startsWith(inputNumber, country.dialCode) || startsWith(country.dialCode, inputNumber);
    });
  }}
/>
```

### Clear country
To clear `country`, pass `null` as `value`.

### Dynamic placeholder
<details>
  <summary>Show</summary>

```jsx
const phoneCountryFormat = useMemo(() => phoneCountry?.format || undefined, [phoneCountry]);
const placeholder = useMemo(() => {
  if (phoneCountryFormat) {
    const words = phoneCountryFormat.split(' ');
    words.shift(); // I'm using only local numbers so here I remove the country code from the format
    let text = words.join(' ');
     // first digit is special on french numbers, these 3 lines could be removed
    if (country === 'fr') {
      text = text.replace('.', '6');
    }
    while (text.indexOf('.') > -1) {
      text = text.replace('.', `${Math.min(9, Math.max(1, Math.floor(Math.random() * 10)))}`);
    }
    return text;
  }
  return '';
}, [phoneCountryFormat, country]);
```
</details>

### CDN
```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/react-phone-input-2@2.x/dist/lib.js"></script>
```

## Contributing
- Code style changes not allowed
- Do not create issues about incorrect or missing country masks (of already present countries) or absent area codes (they will be closed). Only create issues if the subject is an actual mechanism that is not present in the component. Otherwise create a PR with a link that proves the correctness of your newly suggested mask or list of area codes
- Do not send new languages

## License
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/bl00mber/react-phone-input-2/blob/master/LICENSE)

Based on [react-phone-input](https://github.com/razagill/react-phone-input)

Make sure you donated for lib maintenance [![Donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-green.svg)](https://www.paypal.me/bloomber/20)
